


RTCWEB                                                           D. York
Internet-Draft                                          Internet Society
Intended status: Informational                             June 22, 2012
Expires: December 22, 2012

            Security Concerns For RTCWEB Congestion Control
                draft-york-rtcweb-congestion-security-xx

Abstract

   As the Real-Time Communication in WEB-browsers (RTCWEB) working group
   explores options for congestion control to ensure that browser-based
   voice, video and data communication do not overwhelm a network, care
   must be taken to ensure that the congestion controls have appropriate
   security mechanisms to prevent mis-use by potential attackers.

   This document explores potential security concerns and attacks that
   could be made against congestion controls.

   NOTE: While this document is in the form of an Internet-Draft, it has
   been created for the IAB/IRTF Congestion Control Workshop on July 28,
   2012, and has NOT yet been submitted as an I-D.  It is written in
   this style, though, with the intent that it may be submitted as an
   I-D in the future.

Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on December 22, 2012.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2012 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.







York                   Expires December 22, 2012                [Page 1]

Internet-Draft             Abbreviated Title                   June 2012


   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (http://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Simplified BSD License text
   as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
   2.  Potential Attacks Against Congestion Control Mechanisms  . . .  3
     2.1.  Denial of Service To An Individual User  . . . . . . . . .  3
     2.2.  Elevation of Service For An Individual User  . . . . . . .  3
     2.3.  Denial of Service For A Network  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
     2.4.  Change of Communication Mode . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   3.  Inter-Domain Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   4.  Next Steps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   5.  Security Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   6.  References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     6.1.  Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     6.2.  Informative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
   Author's Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5

1.  Introduction

   The Real-Time Communication in WEB-browsers (RTCWEB) working group is
   working to standardize protocols that can be used to enable
   interoperability between web browsers for interactive real-time
   communication using audio, video, chat, collaboration, games, etc..
   See draft-ietf-rtcweb-overview [I-D.ietf-rtcweb-overview] for an
   overview of the goals of the overall RTCWEB initiative.

   The RTCWEB working group is now exploring how best to provide
   "congestion control" along the lines described in RFC 2914 [RFC2914]
   and expanded upon for UDP in RFC 5405 [RFC5405].  The primary
   objectives are:

   o  Prevent the collapse of a network due to congestion.

   o  Provide a level of fairness to all traffic flows on the network.

   It is expected that as RTCWEB is implemented in common web browsers
   the amount of real-time communication traffic could be quite
   substantial and thus the need for adequate congestion control is
   critical.

   Security concerns for RTCWEB have already been well-documented in
   draft-ietf-rtcweb-security [I-D.ietf-rtcweb-security] and draft-ietf-
   rtcweb-security-arch [I-D.ietf-rtcweb-security-arch].  However, the



York                   Expires December 22, 2012                [Page 2]

Internet-Draft             Abbreviated Title                   June 2012

   potential addition of congestion control mechanisms introduces
   additional possible avenues of attack.

   While some of these attacks may be adequately mitigated by security
   mechanisms already required for RTCWEB implementations, this document
   outlines these potential security concerns for discussion and
   consideration.

2.  Potential Attacks Against Congestion Control Mechanisms

   As no congestion control mechanism is yet defined for RTCWEB, the
   potential attacks below are hypothetical and are raised as questions
   to be discussed.  Some of the proposed congestion control mechanisms
   may turn out not to be susceptible to some or all of these attacks.
   Other proposed mechanisms may be vulnerable.  This document does not
   make assumptions about whether the congestion control mechanism might
   be implemented in the media stream, signaling stream or by some other
   means.

2.1.  Denial of Service To An Individual User

   An attacker may want to disrupt the communication flow from a
   specific user or set of users.  This could be to target a specific
   user or to disrupt a certain set of communication exchanges.

   Can the attacker maliciously modify congestion control signals in
   such a way that the traffic flow from a user or set of users is
   significantly degraded to the point where communication is no longer
   useful?  Perhaps by tricking the sender into believing there is great
   congestion and introducing excessive latency?  Or signaling to a
   RTCWEB endpoint that it repeatedly needs to switch to a different
   media codec?  Or signaling to the target endpoint that there is
   simply too much congestion for any RTCWEB communication to occur?

2.2.  Elevation of Service For An Individual User

   Conversely, an attacker might want to give higher priority to a
   specific traffic flow (including his or her own) to the detriment of
   other users.

   Can the attacker maliciously modify the congestion control signals so
   that a particular traffic flow can be given higher priority?  Perhaps
   by signaling to all other RTCWEB streams that there is too much
   congestion?

2.3.  Denial of Service For A Network

   If there is a large volume of RTCWEB traffic on a given network and a
   congestion control mechanism ensures that the traffic does not
   overwhelm the network, an attacker may find that an easy way to
   perform a denial of service (DoS) against the entire network may be
   to simply remove all congestion control signals or convince all
   RTCWEB endpoints that there is no congestion.


York                   Expires December 22, 2012                [Page 3]

Internet-Draft             Abbreviated Title                   June 2012


   Can an attacker maliciously modify the congestion control signals to
   strip out any such signaling?  Or perhaps modify the congestion
   control signals in such a way that sending endpoints believe there is
   no congestion and that they can send at their highest available
   volumes?

2.4.  Change of Communication Mode

   RTCWEB communication is expected to allow multiple modes of
   communication, i.e.  voice, video, chat, data collaboration, etc.  A
   RTCWEB session between two users might involve all of the above.  A
   congestion control mechanism could allow specification of which
   traffic flows receive priority and how the different flows are
   addressed when faced with congestion.  For instance, when congestion
   levels become too high, a video flow may be dropped while an audio or
   chat flow may continue.

   Could an attacker maliciously modify congestion control signals to
   force such a downgrade?  For one or both users?

3.  Inter-Domain Considerations

   A RTCWEB communication session is not expected to take place entirely
   within one network or administrative domain.  It may take place
   across multiple networks or even more likely take place across the
   public Internet.

   Can the confidentiality and integrity of the congestion control
   signals be ensured across all the various networks through which the
   session travels?

4.  Next Steps

   The potential attacks outlined here need to be further explored to
   determine if they are, in fact, valid attacks against potential
   RTCWEB congestion control mechanisms.  Discussion needs to be held to
   understand if there are additional potential attacks beyond those
   listed here.

   The potential attacks that are valid then need to be compared against
   the security mechanisms defined in draft-ietf-rtcweb-security [I-D
   .ietf-rtcweb-security] and draft-ietf-rtcweb-security-arch [I-D.ietf-
   rtcweb-security-arch] to understand whether or not the attacks may be
   mitigated or eliminated by already-required security mechanisms.

   Any congestion control mechanisms brought for consideration to the
   RTCWEB working group need to indicate how they address these and
   other security considerations.

5.  Security Considerations

   This entire document is about security considerations.


York                   Expires December 22, 2012                [Page 4]

Internet-Draft             Abbreviated Title                   June 2012


6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

   [RFC2914]  Floyd, S., "Congestion Control Principles", BCP 41, RFC
              2914, September 2000.

   [RFC5405]  Eggert, L. and G. Fairhurst, "Unicast UDP Usage Guidelines
              for Application Designers", BCP 145, RFC 5405, November
              2008.

6.2.  Informative References

   [I-D.ietf-rtcweb-overview]
              Alvestrand, H., "Overview: Real Time Protocols for Brower-
              based Applications", Internet-Draft draft-ietf-rtcweb-
              overview-04, June 2012.

   [I-D.ietf-rtcweb-security]
              Rescorla, E., "Security Considerations for RTC-Web",
              Internet-Draft draft-ietf-rtcweb-security-03, June 2012.

   [I-D.ietf-rtcweb-security-arch]
              Rescorla, E., "RTCWEB Security Architecture", Internet-
              Draft draft-ietf-rtcweb-security-arch-02, June 2012.

   [I-D.alvestrand-rtcweb-congestion]
              Lundin, H., Holmer, S. and H. Alvestrand, "A Google
              Congestion Control Algorithm for Real-Time Communication
              on the World Wide Web", Internet-Draft draft-alvestrand-
              rtcweb-congestion-02, April 2012.

Author's Address

   Dan York
   Internet Society
   Keene, N.H.
   USA
   
   Phone: +1-802-735-1624
   Email: york@isoc.org












York                   Expires December 22, 2012                [Page 5]
